All right, part two collections.
So in this next section, we're going to
talk about tuples, structs, arrays and
memory.
Let's start with tuples.
This is how I can define a tuple in rust.
So basically I use these parentheses here.
So you'll notice that I'm saying (0,
0, 0),
that's making a tuple,
which has three elements in it.
The title of the tuple is ( i64,
i64, i64), in this case.
Now, you can mix and
match these as much as you want.
They don't all have to be the same type,
but they just happen to be in this case.
And you can also have more than three of
these or fewer than that if you want.
If I wanna read some
value out of this tuple.
I can say let x = point.0, and that's
going to get the first element in there.
We can also say y is point.1,
Z is point.2.
So you can imagine this might
be a 3D coordinate point.
And this would be how I would
get the values out of there.
I can also use destructuring syntax as
a way to get x, y and z into scope.
So x, y and z equals point.
This does exactly the same
thing as this previous line.
This is basically just syntax sugar for
this.
So x is going to be this one,
y is going to be the middle one, and
z is going to be the last one.
If you want, you can also D structure
only some of them, not all of them.
So you can do that by putting
an underscore in place of any of the ones
that you don't care.
Underscore and rust generally means I
don't want to bother naming this thing
although I need to put something here.
So rather than picking a name and having
it be unused, I'll just put an underscore
here to say I only care about x and
y from this particular point.
If you want to have only x, you do that
too and have multiple underscores.
In fact, you can have as many
underscores as you want,
whenever you're doing destructuring.
If you want to mutate a tuple you
need you do need to use let mut.
So you may recall that we mentioned
previously that let by default is both
cost and immutable and let mut is neither.
So this allows me to not only
reassign something to point but
also to mutate any of these
individual values inside of it.
So now I can say point.0 = 17.
To change that from a zero to a 17,
I can change point.1 as well, and point.2.
But again, if I didn't have let mut,
none of these would compile.
The rust compiler would say, Nope,
you need to have a mut there
in order to make it mutable.
Unit is a special tuple which
is basically these zero tuple.
So if we saw here we had a tuple
with three values in it,
you can also have tuples with two values.
There's really no such thing as a tuple
with one value because that's just like
the thing itself and
you can have more than three if you want.
But there's also a special tuple called
unit which is basically a zero tuple.
This is a tuple that has
nothing inside of it.
It's a tuple holding no information.
It's extremely boring, because
there's only one zero tuple ever and
it's called unit.
So you can never have more than
one of these because they hold
no information whatsoever.
And in fact, they're guaranteed
to never hold any information.
Because tuples cannot change
their sizes at runtime.
You can't have more elements in the tuple.
There's no like, I want to push a new
element into a tuple at runtime,
can't do it.
It's got a fixed number of slots that
are always constant throughout the life of
your programme.
And in this case, it's fixed at zero
slots for the life of your program.
So you might be asking the question,
why is this in the language?
What is the use of having a zero tuple,
something that guaranteed has no
information associated with it.
Well, basically it comes up when
you're writing functions that have no
return value.
At least,
that's one case where it can come up.
So let's say I have my main function.
We said earlier that main
doesn't return anything,
but actually this is really just syntax
sugar for saying it returns tuple.
So many times you have a function or
a macro,
which quote unquote returns nothing, in
rust every function is actually required.
To have a return type, but unit is
basically used as sort of the default.
If you don't wanna specify one.
It's basically saying, okay, yes, I have
a return type II return type is unit which
is to say I have nothing
of interest to return.
So, you can safely disregard
whatever I'm returning.
So technically if you want to, you can
even say let print line return Val,
which has the type unit equals and
then call print line.
So When you're calling a macro,
unless you have a list,
it's on its own line with
a semicolon at the end.
This is still technically an expression
and yeah, it'll return a value, but
that value is going to be unit, so
it's not going to be of any help to you.
So suddenly we just have the term, use the
term void for something similar to this.
Technically, yeah, you can take unit
you can even pass a unit around, but
in practice.
This is how it's most commonly used as
basically a rusts equivalent of what other
languages use the term void to me